now what was your impression when you
first walked onto the site really
visions of Dante's Inferno and Hell and
just you know the terrible destruction
which was still completely fresh what
was your impression as you looked at
this with a photographer's eye but also
with a New Yorkers heart I remember it
clearly as any first of anything sticks
with you I I found that hard hat I put
it on I walked about no more than 30
feet I would say and I was confronted by
the north tower remains steaming smoking
water being shot into it and and I
remember standing in front of it and I
had this kind of quaking in my stomach I
started to feel not faint but weak and
shaking and I I i sat down there was a
beam a gigantic beam just like that last
column that scale beam and I sat down on
it and it was hot from the heat coming
up through the ground
it was hot to the touch and I said I
didn't matter I had on a heavy coat and
I sat on it there and I just wept i sat
in front of that pie shaking and weeping
and wondering what why am I here what
what have I done
what's expected of me what can I offer I
mean overwhelmed by the spectacle and
feeling diminished and you know really
insufficient in some way is that a
feeling you need to overcome to make the
photographs you start making at that
point or is or is the photography you're
doing somewhere out of that feeling the
second I what happened for me was one of
those transformations that one hopes to
to meet in any situation like falling in
love
I felt that I can work with that from
that that I was that moved that it
wasn't about my I and shaping and
framing a nice-looking photograph but it
was to work with my visceral connections
so that when I felt something and that's
when I would make a photograph rather
than just eyeball it and give it some
shape and everything this was not
something to be an aesthetic recognition
of it was about the connective sensation
that makes you and the event align
itself in some way that it goes in
deeply and if these pictures have any
resonance it's because they demanded to
be made and whatever emotion or beauty
are you know come from the photographs
come because that's how it was when it
would when I was there let's come to
this idea of beauty because it seems
very incongruous to say the least
to think of beauty in a scene like this
of such destruction surrounded by death
even the stench of it as you mentioned
before that's an uncomfortable
connection and yet you're a photographer
you don't go there to take bad pictures
you can only take the pictures you think
are best in a given moment is there a
tension in that for you the recognition
that amidst all of this horror somehow
your job is to identify an essential
moment that may have profound elements
of beauty to it it was in the the
balance of things it was a big big
question because the temptation to make
Beauty is part of the photographic
Enterprise you know one adjusts and
finds the core of your own sense of what
is the beautiful in the world so to be
in this 16 acre space in which huge
forces had brought down
the towers the forces of gravity and
nature after the act of man and to see
everything distributed the way it was
everywhere created a landscape of such
phenomenal proportions of such
unexpected intricacy that a new kind of
beauty was visible and not just to me
ordinary iron workers and construction
workers and truck drivers all had the
same sense of awe all around the site
were thousands of chairs that had flown
out of the buildings and these chairs
made a kind of bleachers around the site
and workers who were in there for hours
at a time would come out and retreat to
the bleachers which were really let's
say on West Street and Liberty Street
and Church Street all the way around and
they'd sit there with a sandwich or a
drink and they just stare at the pile
because the activity on it was
continuing we even when they retreated
it was that much of a visual magnet you
could never stop looking at it because
it was transforming itself every single
day all of the ants were crawling over
the pile pulling it apart retrieving the
useful throwing away that the treatise
it was a constant change so I think the
properties inherent in the place itself
surrounded by the backdrop of lower
Manhattan that was still intact
but made for a kind of urban sublime
that was I think continuous with the
great American tradition of romantic
painting the Hudson River School the
great paintings of the West these these
are you know part of history and this
too follows in in that
and that sort of modern image of it